---
grand_parent: The Best Practices
parent: Language Features
title: Auto Properties
---

[Microsoft Docs / Auto-implemented Properties](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/auto-implemented-properties)

## Recommendation

For instances where no logic is contained in the getters & setters, an auto property should be used.

use

```cs
public string Name { get; set; }
```

not

```cs
private string _name;

public string Name
{
    get { return _name;  }
    set { _name = value;  }
}
```

## Justification

Note that there is a broader discussion to be had regarding what logic is appropriate to put inside property getters & setters.

In cases where no logic is present, including getters and setters is simply adding unnecessary boilerplate lines of code.

## Arguments

### Against Auto Properties[^1]

* **Automatic property is more effective than regular one.** They are practically same thing. Backing field of automatic property is generated by compiler and backing field of regular property is written by developer manually. Testing which one is faster is tricky as testers must know if [method inlining](https://docs.microsoft.com/archive/blogs/davidnotario/jit-optimizations-inlining-ii) and other runtime optimizations are equally used on properties they compare.
* **Backing field of automatic property raises compiler overhead.** It’s actually not a myth but considering how powerful are even simple laptops today I don’t see that using automatic properties put any notable overhead to compiler. We loose probably few milliseconds and so what?
* **Automatic property is anti-pattern.** I have heard the statement but never valid proof for it. As shown above technically is automatic property practically the same as regular property. It is going through same optimizations as regular property. The only difference is that backing field is automatically generated.
* **Backing fields don’t support attributes.** There are rare cases when attributes on backing field are needed but this problem is solved with C# 7.3, see the blog post [Adding attribute to backing field of automated property](https://gunnarpeipman.com/csharp/backing-field-attribute/). You can define attribute that targets fields and apply it to backing field of automated property by decorating it by your custom attribute using syntax like this: [field: MyCustomAttribute].

## Exceptions

## Performance

## Readability

## Analyzers

| ID | Name | Value
|:-|:-|:-|
| IDE0032 | dotnet_style_prefer_auto_properties | true:suggestion |

## Discussion

[GitHub Discussion](){: .btn .btn-purple }

[^1]: https://gunnarpeipman.com/csharp-automatic-properties/